# Moshling-Calculator
A web calculator that computes the optimal way to plant seeds in Moshi Monsters to attract the desired moshling.

# How it works
There are finitely many different gardens (with fully grown plants) in the game, and each of these gardens can be viewed as a state. When you log on to tend to your garden, you have the choice of which plants to dig up and then which seeds to plant. This single process of digging and replanting is called an action. The question we want to answer is: starting from the empty garden, which actions should we take at each stage to minimise the average number of total actions until we get the moshling we want. If we decide on which action to take at every possible state, this determines our policy. A policy tells us exactly what action to take in every possible state. Each policy has an expected number of actions taken until we get the right moshling. Once a policy has been fixed, this process is a Markov chain, with transition matrix determined by the policy, and we want to minimise the expected hitting time of the absorbing states, namely the gardens which attract our moshling. The goal is to find the policy with the smallest expected hitting time amongst all possible policies. This is a general problem called the stochastic shortest path problem (SSP), and is a special case of a finite Markov decision process (with no discounting or rewards). Such problems have algorithmic solutions, and the one I opted for is called "policy iteration". The core idea is to start with an initial policy, for example just attempt to one shot the combination for the moshling, regardless of the current garden, and then make incremental improvements. These incremental improvements are found via a greedy strategy of checking if changing any single action will improve the expected hitting time. This process is called policy improvement, and is guaranteed to converge to an optimal solution in finitely many steps (in practice the number of iterations is actually very small). I precomputed all of these optimal policies, and so the calculator just needs to ask the policy what to do in the given garden state.

# Why it's interesting
It may seem that there should be a much simpler solution, for example just planting one by one until you get the right colours. The reason this problem becomes more interesting is because a garden of 3 fully grown plants is fully reset if you get a moshling, otherwise you can choose to dig up fewer plants. This makes it more important to prioritise making sure that you don't risk resetting your whole garden while trying to get the final colour you want. If you try to use the calculator, you'll probably realise in most cases that the calculator agrees with your intuition, but it also might change the ordering slightly for the reasons mentioned above.

# Disclaimer
This calculator was made specifically for the version of Moshi Monsters on Moshi Online, so moshling recipes may be slightly different to expected. I also copied all of these by hand, so there could also be some mistakes. The calculator does not take into account the fact that certain gardens appear to attract multiple moshlings, for example with Oddie and Snookums, which means that in a smal number of cases the answers will be very slightly off. If anybody knows the logic behind how these clashes are resolved in the game then feel free to let me know or adjust the code yourself. It is possible that the code has bugs and so the answers may not be correct. If you find a bug in the code then let me know or feel free to fix it yourself, same if the calculator spits out an answer which looks wrong.